I was excited to start our first project because it gave me a chance to practice the concepts we have learned in the first half of this course along with working with data that I find extremely fun and interesting to work with. 

First, I had to determine what endpoints I wanted to build functions for. The Polygon.io API had a lot of free endpoints, some of which being much more useful than others. I decided that I wanted to query functions for both the traditional stock exchange and the cryptocurrency markets. I decided on endpoints that focused on historical data were going to be the most interesting and useful for me. A major aspect of financial modeling is the use of historical data, and the Polygon.io API has many ways you can query that data to your desire. Thus, I set out to build functions on six key endpoints to pull historical data and types of stock/crypto. Once I built the functions, I was able to start the data analysis. I then pulled data on the S&P 500, the Vanguard 500 Index Fund, Bitcoin, and Ethereum and compared how well they performed in a year long period. I was satisfied with my findings in that the trends for the S&P 500 and Vanguard 500 followed closely with each other, along with Bitcoin and Ethereum also working along the same trends. Furthermore, I was able to analyze quarterly performance based on the close price and number of transactions for the given position. 

At first, the most difficult part of the project for me was building the functions. However, once I had a couple working, I became much more efficient with how to build the rest of them. The real difficulty of this project was being able to push my work up to GitHub and make sure my repository and GitHub Pages was working correctly. This is an area in which I need much more practice in and need to get my issues with GitHub ironed out. Regarding what I would do differently in the future, I would want to work with less data. In retrospect, I could have only used the S&P 500 and Bitcoin data opposed to all four positions. This would have sped up the process of my data cleaning/wrangling and analysis portion of the project. However, thankfully finance is a topic of interest, so I genuinely enjoyed working with more data to identify market trends. 

You can view my Project 1 here! https://github.com/owensnyder/ST558-Project-1/blob/main/st558-Project1-rmd.md

You can view my Project 1 Repo here: https://github.com/owensnyder/ST558-Project-1
You can view my Project 1 Github Pages here:

NOTE: you can also view my repositiory for the whole project "ST558-Project-1" when you naviagte to my main "owensnyder" page. There you will see the option to access my enitre Project 1 repository.
